= rsyslog-solr

rsyslog-solr is a couple of scripts and configs to write syslog
mesages into solr to allow full text searches.  Currently just a proof
of concept and needs further work.

== Installation

You'll need ruby and solr.  On Debian/Ubuntu you can install the ruby
and solr-jetty packages.

=== rsyslog-solr configuration

Copy the rsyslog-solr script to /usr/local/bin and copy the
rsyslog-solr.conf upstart script into /etc/init

=== rsyslog configuration

The following lines added to your /etc/rsyslog.conf will get the log
entries written to the named pipe in the right format:

  $template SolrFormat,"<doc><field name='from'>%FROMHOST%</field> <field name='facility'>%syslogfacility-text%</field> <field name='msg'><![CDATA[%msg%]]></field> <field name='hostname'>%HOSTNAME%</field> <field name='priority'>%syslogpriority%</field> <field name='tag'>%syslogtag%</field> <field name='program'>%programname%</field> <field name='severity'>%syslogseverity-text%</field> <field name='generated'>%timegenerated:::date-rfc3339%</field></doc>\n"
  *.* |/tmp/rsyslog-solr;SolrFormat

Then configure your others hosts to log centrally to this server.

=== solr configuration

Copy the schema.xml to /usr/share/solr/conf/schema.xml and
start/restart solr.  Schema changes don't take effect if you've
already written data to the solr db, so you'll need to wipe it out if
you didn't do this before the other bits (rm -rf /var/lib/solr/data/)

== Searching

Log lines are written to solr in batches of 10, and each batch should
be available for search within 10 seconds by default.

Use the rsyslog-solr-search script to conduct searches.

The environment variable LIMIT sets how many results to display, and
PAGE let's you page through the results.

=== find failed logins
  $ rsyslog-solr-search failed password
  page 1 of 50555 hits for search "failed password"
  2011-03-03T12:31:12.402385+00:00 srv-g1xxx sshd  Failed password for invalid user password from 119.188.7.168 port 63741 ssh2
  2011-03-03T12:16:43.272207+00:00 srv-5axxx sshd  Failed password for invalid user password from 119.188.7.168 port 35110 ssh2
  2011-03-03T20:23:56.767459+00:00 srv-d2xxx sshd  Failed password for root from 116.255.130.196 port 43757 ssh2

=== show all log message from the last hour
  $ rsyslog-solr-search timestamp:[NOW-1HOUR TO NOW] 
  page 1 of 1800 hits for search "timestamp:[NOW-1HOUR TO NOW]"

== Notes

* any user that can generate logs that are sent to the system can
  cause a denial of service attack by sending specially malformed
  messages. This can be fixed by moving the formatting of the log
  entries from rsyslog into the ruby script, but I've not done it yet.
* the timestamp field is actually the time the line was received by
  solr, not the time it was generated.  This can again be fixed by
  moving the formatting into the ruby script.

= More Info

Author::  John Leach  (mailto:john@johnleach.co.uk)
Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2011 John Leach
License:: MIT
Github:: http://github.com/johnl/rsyslog-solr/tree/master
Blog: http://johnleach.co.uk/words/?p=744